Closes #55: Update Protocol Flow to define required checks for authorization response (#65)
decentralized-identity/jwt-vc-presentation-profile: spec/spec.md

Note that a Holder DID signing the ID Token in its `sub` claim is user's identifier within the RP/Verifier, while a Holder DID signing a VP in its `iss` claim is user's identifier within the Issuer, and the two do not have the same connotation.

#### [[def:Validation of Authorization Response]]

The following checks MUST be made by the Verifier upon receiving the Authorization Response. Verifiers MAY perform any additional checks according to their trust framework/policies.

##### ID Token Validation

Verifiers MUST go through (at least) the following steps and validate ID Token according to the rules defined in section 12.1 of [[ref: SIOPv2 ID1]] before trusting/using any of the contents of an ID Token:

1. Ensure that `iss` claim is `https://self-issued.me/v2/openid-vc`.

> 2. Validate the signature on the ID Token. Validation is performed against the key obtained from a DID Document. DID Document MUST be obtained by resolving a Decentralized Identifier included in the `sub` claim using DID Resolution. If a DID Doc contains multiple keys, kid in the header is used to identify which key to use.
> 3. Check that the DID in the `kid` and `sub` claims exactly match.
> 4. Check that `sub` claim equal the `id` property in the DID Document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Check that the DID value in the `kid` and `sub` claims exactly match.
3. Validate the signature on the ID Token. Validation is performed against the key obtained from a DID Document. DID Document MUST be obtained by resolving a Decentralized Identifier included in the `sub` claim using DID Resolution. If a DID Doc contains multiple keys, kid in the header is used to identify which key to use.
4. Check that `sub` claim equal the value of the `id` property in the DID Document obtained in step 3.
```

5. Check that the `_vp_token` claim is present and contains a `presentation_submission` with a valid descriptor map.

##### VP Token Validation

Verifiers MUST go through (at least) the following steps before trusting/using any of the contents of a VP Token:

> 1. Validate the signature on the VP Token. Validation is performed against the key obtained from a DID Document. DID Document MUST be obtained by resolving a Decentralized Identifier included in the `sub` claim using DID Resolution. If a DID Doc contains multiple keys, kid in the header is used to identify which key to use.
> 2. Check that the DID value in the `kid` and `sub` claims match.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Check that the DID value in the `kid` and `sub` claims match.
2. Validate the signature on the VP Token. Validation is performed against the key obtained from a DID Document. DID Document MUST be obtained by resolving a Decentralized Identifier included in the `sub` claim using DID Resolution. If a DID Doc contains multiple keys, kid in the header is used to identify which key to use.
```

> 1. Validate the signature on the VP Token. Validation is performed against the key obtained from a DID Document. DID Document MUST be obtained by resolving a Decentralized Identifier included in the `sub` claim using DID Resolution. If a DID Doc contains multiple keys, kid in the header is used to identify which key to use.
> 2. Check that the DID value in the `kid` and `sub` claims match.
> 3. Determine the number of VPs returned in the VP Token and identify in which VP requested VC(s) are included, using the descriptor map obtained from the ID Token.
> 4. Confirm that the VC meets all requested criteria using the mechanisms outlined in Section 4.3 of [[ref: Presentation Exchange v1.0.0]], using the presentation definition from the Authorization Request.
> 5. Validate signature(s) on each VC(s).
> 6. It is highly recommened that the Verifier permforms Linked Domain Verification of the Issuer's DID as defined in [[ref: Linked Domain Verification]].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Determine the number of VPs returned in the VP Token and identify in which VP requested VC(s) are included, using the descriptor map obtained from the ID Token.
2. Check that the DID value in the `kid` and `sub` claims match in each of the VP(s).
3. Validate the signature of each of the VP(s) passed in the VP Token. Validation is performed against the key obtained from a DID Document. DID Document MUST be obtained by resolving a Decentralized Identifier included in the `sub` claim using DID Resolution. If a DID Doc contains multiple keys, kid in the header is used to identify which key to use.
4. Confirm that the VC meets all requested criteria using the mechanisms outlined in Section 4.3 of [[ref: Presentation Exchange v1.0.0]], using the presentation definition from the Authorization Request.
5. Validate signature(s) on each VC(s).
6. Check that the DID value in the `iss` Claim of a VP exactly match with the `sub` Claim in the VC(s). (Holder Binding)
7. It is highly recommended that the Verifier performs Linked Domain Verification of the Issuer's DID as defined in [[ref: Linked Domain Verification]].
```

Note that a Holder DID signing the ID Token in its `sub` claim is user's identifier within the RP/Verifier, while a Holder DID signing a VP in its `iss` claim is user's identifier within the Issuer, and the two do not have the same connotation.

> #### [[def:Validation of Authorization Response]]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Validation of Authorization Response
```

Author: def enables us to link it in other parts of the spec. lets leave this here since I reference this section in the earlier section

Reviewer: I think I was trying to reference the sections without changing the section name - I was doing it wrong than..

The following checks MUST be made by the Verifier upon receiving the Authorization Response. Verifiers MAY perform any additional checks according to their trust framework/policies.

##### ID Token Validation

> To validate the received ID Token, the Verifier MUST do the following:
> 
> 1. The Verifier MUST validate ID Token according to the rules defined in section 12.1 of [[ref: SIOPv2 ID1]].
> 2. The ID Token MUST be signed by the End-User's DID.
> 3. `iss` claim MUST be `https://self-issued.me/v2/openid-vc`.
> 4. The signature on the ID Token MUST be validated. Validation is performed against the key obtained from a DID Document. DID Document MUST be obtained by resolving a Decentralized Identifier included in the `sub` claim using DID Resolution. If a DID Doc contains multiple keys, kid in the header is used to identify which key to use.
> 5. The DID in the `kid` and `sub` claim MUST match.
> 6. `sub` claim MUST equal the `id` property in the DID Document.
> 7. The `_vp_token` claim MUST be present and contain a presentation_submission with a valid descriptor map.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Verifiers MUST go through (at least) the following steps and validate ID Token according to the rules defined in section 12.1 of [[ref: SIOPv2 ID1]] before trusting/using any of the contents of an ID Token:

1. Ensure that `iss` claim is `https://self-issued.me/v2/openid-vc`.
2. Validate the signature on the ID Token. Validation is performed against the key obtained from a DID Document. DID Document MUST be obtained by resolving a Decentralized Identifier included in the `sub` claim using DID Resolution. If a DID Doc contains multiple keys, kid in the header is used to identify which key to use.
3. Check that the DID in the `kid` and `sub` claims exactly match.
4. Check that `sub` claim equal the `id` property in the DID Document.
5. Check that the `_vp_token` claim is present and contains a `presentation_submission` with a valid descriptor map.

```

I don't think "Validate the ID Token MUST be signed by the End-User's DID." is actionable - how does verifier know if DID is holder's or not?
do you mean if verifier has previously interacted with that user?

DID Resolution is part of step 2 (numbers are as in my suggestion), but steps 3 and 4 are part of DID Resolution - i would imagine steps 3 and 4 are before actuate signature validation happens in step 2 - I think we can clarify better

Author: I like your clarification !

##### VP Token Validation

> To Validate the VP Token received, the Verifier MUST do the following:
> 
> 1. The signature on the VP Token MUST be validated. Validation is performed against the key obtained from a DID Document. DID Document MUST be obtained by resolving a Decentralized Identifier included in the `sub` claim using DID Resolution. If a DID Doc contains multiple keys, kid in the header is used to identify which key to use.
> 2. The DID in the `kid` and `sub` claim MUST match.
> 3. Using the descriptor map obtained from the ID Token, the Verifier MUST determine the number of VPs returned in the VP Token and identify the in which VP requested VC(s) are included.
> 4. Using the presentation definition from the Authorization Request, the Verifier must confirm that the VC meets all requested criteria using the mechanisms outlined in Section 4.3 of [[ref: Presentation Exchange v1.0.0]].
> 5. The signature on the VCs embedded in the VPs must be validated.
> 6. It is highly recommened that the Verifier permforms Linked Domain Verification of the Issuer's DID as defined in [[ref: Linked Domain Verification]].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Verifiers MUST go through (at least) the following steps before trusting/using any of the contents of a VP Token:

1. Validate the signature on the VP Token. Validation is performed against the key obtained from a DID Document. DID Document MUST be obtained by resolving a Decentralized Identifier included in the `sub` claim using DID Resolution. If a DID Doc contains multiple keys, kid in the header is used to identify which key to use.
2. Check that the DID value in the `kid` and `sub` claims match.
3. Determine the number of VPs returned in the VP Token and identify in which VP requested VC(s) are included, using the descriptor map obtained from the ID Token.
4. Confirm that the VC meets all requested criteria using the mechanisms outlined in Section 4.3 of [[ref: Presentation Exchange v1.0.0]], using the presentation definition from the Authorization Request.
5. Validate signature(s) on each VC(s).
6. It is highly recommened that the Verifier permforms Linked Domain Verification of the Issuer's DID as defined in [[ref: Linked Domain Verification]].
```

same comment as above - step 2 feels like part of 1.
also there is no such thing as a signature on a VP Token.. verifier needs to take out VPs from a VP Token to validate signature(s) on the VP(s)

4. Check that `sub` claim equal the value of the `id` property in the DID Document obtained in step 3.
5. Check that the `_vp_token` claim is present and contains a `presentation_submission` with a valid descriptor map.

##### VP Token Validation

Verifiers MUST go through (at least) the following steps before trusting/using any of the contents of a VP Token:

1. Determine the number of VPs returned in the VP Token and identify in which VP requested VC(s) are included, using the descriptor map obtained from the ID Token.
2. Check that the DID value in the `kid` and `iss` claims match in each of the VP(s).
3. Validate the signature of each of the VP(s) passed in the VP Token. Validation is performed against the key obtained from a DID Document. DID Document MUST be obtained by resolving a Decentralized Identifier included in the `iss` claim using DID Resolution. If a DID Doc contains multiple keys, kid in the header is used to identify which key to use.

> 4. Confirm that the VC meets all requested criteria using the mechanisms outlined in Section 4.3 of [[ref: Presentation Exchange v1.0.0]], using the presentation definition from the Authorization Request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Confirm that the VC meets all requested criteria using the mechanisms outlined in Section 4.3 of [[ref: Presentation Exchange v1.0.0]], using the presentation definition from the Authorization Request, i.e. credential format, type, JSON schema, etc.
```

> 5. Validate signature(s) on each VC(s). Validation is performed against the key obtained from a DID Document. DID Document MUST be obtained by resolving a Decentralized Identifier included in the `iss` claim using DID Resolution. If a DID Doc contains multiple keys, kid in the header is used to identify which key to use.
> 6. Check that the DID value in the `kid` and `iss` claims match in each of the VC(s).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Check that the DID value in the `kid` and `iss` claims match in each of the VC(s).
6. Validate signature(s) on each VC(s). Validation is performed against the key obtained from a DID Document. DID Document MUST be obtained by resolving a Decentralized Identifier included in the `iss` claim using DID Resolution. If a DID Doc contains multiple keys, kid in the header is used to identify which key to use.
```

7. Check that the DID value in the `iss` Claim of a VP exactly match with the `sub` Claim in the VC(s). (Holder Binding)

> 8. It is highly recommended that the Verifier performs Linked Domain Verification of the Issuer's DID as defined in [[ref: Linked Domain Verification]].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. It is highly recommended that the Verifier performs Linked Domain Verification of the Issuer's DID using the mechanism defined in [[ref: Linked Domain Verification]].
9. It is highly recommended that the Verifier checks the status of the VC(s) using the mechanism defined in [[ref: Revocation]].
```

3. Validate the signature of each of the VP(s) passed in the VP Token. Validation is performed against the key obtained from a DID Document. DID Document MUST be obtained by resolving a Decentralized Identifier included in the `iss` claim using DID Resolution. If a DID Doc contains multiple keys, kid in the header is used to identify which key to use.
4. Confirm that the VC meets all requested criteria using the mechanisms outlined in Section 4.3 of [[ref: Presentation Exchange v1.0.0]], using the presentation definition from the Authorization Request, i.e. credential format, type, JSON schema, etc.
5. Check that the DID value in the `kid` and `iss` claims match in each of the VC(s).
6. Validate signature(s) on each VC(s). Validation is performed against the key obtained from a DID Document. DID Document MUST be obtained by resolving a Decentralized Identifier included in the `iss` claim using DID Resolution. If a DID Doc contains multiple keys, kid in the header is used to identify which key to use.
7. Check that the DID value in the `iss` Claim of a VP exactly match with the `sub` Claim in the VC(s). (Holder Binding)

> 8. It is highly recommended that the Verifier performs Linked Domain Verification of the Issuer's DID using the mechanism defined in [[ref: Linked Domain Verification]].
> 9. It is highly recommended that the Verifier checks the status of the VC(s) using the mechanism defined in [[ref: Revocation]].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8.  Perform Linked Domain Verification of the Issuer's DID using the mechanism defined in [[ref: Linked Domain Verification]], when the Verifier's policy, based on the set of trust requirements such as trust frameworks it belongs to, requires to do so. 
8. It is highly recommended that the Verifier
9. Check the status of the VC(s) using the mechanism defined in [[ref: Revocation]], when the Verifier's policy, based on the set of trust requirements such as trust frameworks it belongs to, requires to do so. 
```

```
:::

> #### [[def:Authentication Response Validation]]

Author: not opinionated on where it goes.

> #### [[def:Authentication Response Validation]]

Author: thank you!! i keep mixing up Authorization and Authentication.

The following checks MUST be made by the Verifier upon receiving the Authorization Response:

##### ID Token Validation

To validate the ID Token received, the Verifier MUST do the following:

1. The Verifier MUST validate ID Token according to the rules defined in section 12.1 of [[ref: SIOPv2 ID1]].
2. The ID Token MUST be signed by the End-User's DID:
3. `iss` claim MUST be `https://self-issued.me/v2/openid-vc`.
4. The signature on the ID Token MUST be validated. Validation is performed against the key obtained from a DID Document. DID Document MUST be obtained by resolving a Decentralized Identifier included in the `sub` claim using DID Resolution.
5. `sub` claim MUST equal the `id` property in the DID Document.
6. The `_vp_token` claim MUST be present and contain a presentation_submission with a valid descriptor map.

> ##### VP Token Validation

Reviewer: I think these steps should be more granular. the reason why OpenID4VP spec does not give these detailed steps is because these are credential format specific, so it is great that we now have this profile to clarify.

Author: Can be more granular if we come up with a list.

Author: Will be addressed via #73

To Validate the VP Token received, the Verifier MUST do the following:

> 1. The signature on the VP Token MUST be validated. Validation is performed against the key obtained from a DID Document. DID Document MUST be obtained by resolving a Decentralized Identifier included in the `sub` claim using DID Resolution.

Reviewer: same comment as above wrt additional rules wrt `kid` and `sub`

> 1. The signature on the VP Token MUST be validated. Validation is performed against the key obtained from a DID Document. DID Document MUST be obtained by resolving a Decentralized Identifier included in the `sub` claim using DID Resolution.

Reviewer: > VP Token that includes one or more Verifiable Presentations

VP Token can include one or more VCs - step 0 should probably be identifying the number of VPs in a VP Token using descriptor map in the ID Token, than signature on each VP gets validated.

> 2. Using the descriptor map defined the the ID Token, the Verifier MUST obtain the VPs and validate their integrity, authenticity, and holder binding. Inputs should be evaluated using the mechanisms outlined in Section 4.3 of [[ref: Presentation Exchange v1.0.0]].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Using the descriptor map obtained from the ID Token, the Verifier MUST determine the number of VPs returned in the VP Token and identify the in which VP requested VC(s) are included. Inputs should be evaluated using the mechanisms outlined in Section 4.3 of [[ref: Presentation Exchange v1.0.0]].
```
This should probably be step 0 per comment above.

> 2. Using the descriptor map defined the the ID Token, the Verifier MUST obtain the VPs and validate their integrity, authenticity, and holder binding. Inputs should be evaluated using the mechanisms outlined in Section 4.3 of [[ref: Presentation Exchange v1.0.0]].

Reviewer: also what do you mean by `Inputs`?

Author: definitely unclear... let me clarify.

> 3. The revocation status of the VCs embedded in the VPs MUST match those requested in the Presentation Definition of the Authorization Request. The Verifier MUST check the expected status by discovering the relevant Status List using either DID Relative URLs stored in an HTTPS URL or ID Hubs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. The Verifier MUST validate the signature of the VC(s) embedded in the VPs. <needs more text>
4. The Verifier MUST check the status of VC(s) by discovering the Status List using either DID Relative URLs stored in an ID Hub or an HTTPS URL. 
```
I do not believe the profile currently mandates requesting credential of a specific status. so we cannot require matching those at this moment.

A step to validate VC signatures should be separate,

Author: i could have sworn we talked about this, but i think i was mixed up with something else... i will change to recommend that you check the revocation mentioned presentation definition if its there.

> 4. The integrity of the Issuer of the VC should be checked to confirm that the Issuer controls the DID and its origin. To do so, obtain the Well Known DID Configuration of the Issuer by resolving its DID and then its Linked Domain.

Reviewer: Should be linked to a Linked Domain Verification section
```suggestion
4. The Verifier MUST perform Linked Domain Verification of the Issuer's DID as defined in [[ref: Linked Domain Verification]].
```
